---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "The Importance of Communication"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-02-06
published: true
labels:
  - Applied Communications
---

* The Importance of Interpersonal Communication and Public Speaking *

There are several things I have learned over the past few weeks about interpersonal communication that could really help me reach my public speaking destination.  First, nonverbal communication can be extremely effective in public speaking.  Things such as eye contact will help me when public speaking, as I can stare into the audience and keep them engaged, showing them that I am speaking to everyone in the audience and paying attention to each person listening.  It can also help me gauge the audience and get a feel for how I may need to alter the public speaking to keep them more engaged or change the tone of the speech if I feel as if they may be losing interest.  

The second thing I will mention, and perhaps the most important, is self-feedback and evaluation.  This can help me build confidence and improve my speech before delivering it.  Most of my reservations come from anxiety that I get before giving the speech.  By evaluating myself within the context of the assignment or task guidelines and identifying the strengths or weaknesses, I can assess the progress and make necessary adjustments before presenting it to an audience.
Finally, I could also use immediacy behaviors to help to lessen the perceived physical and psychological distances between myself and the audience that I am speaking to.  By doing things like smiling, nodding, and making frequent eye contact, I feel like I could break the tension that I normally experience while delivering public speeches.  This could help create a more engaging and comfortable speaking environment.

By applying these interpersonal communication skills, I can work toward my public speaking destinations with greater confidence, less anxiety and more effectiveness.  I know I am making progress every week, and hopefully it will show in my first public speaking assignment.
